2023.12.0 (#30177)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2023-12-06-release-202312.markdown

for the thermostat card. You can configure the card to show them or not, by
default, they are hidden.

Oh, the same design has been applied to the humifier and water heater cards
of course 😎.

## History dashboard showing long-term statistics

The history dashboard has gotten some love from [@karwosts] this release, he
added a big improvement to all the graph shown there.

Previously, the graphs would only show the state history, which is limited
to a few days, until the data is removed. This is not always very useful,
for example, when you want to look back further in time.

[@karwosts] came up with a solution for this, and the history dashboard now
combines the state history with the recorded long-term statistics, to provide
you insights into the past.

<img class="no-shadow" src='https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32912880/275918628-dea821b9-5449-4777-8f84-0524eecb0ff9.gif' alt='Temporary screenshot that needs to be replaced.'>

[@karwosts]: https://github.com/karwosts

## Number feature for tile cards

The tile card is a very powerful card, and [@JosephAbbey] is even extending it
this release!

> The tile card now has a "number" new feature you can use, that works number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tile card now has a "number" new feature you can use, that works with number
```

[color temperature selector]: /docs/blueprint/selectors/#color-temperature-selector
[ESPHome]: /integrations/esphome
[IKEA IDÅSEN]: /integrations/idasen_desk
[Overkiz]: /integrations/overkiz
[Roborock]: /integrations/roborock
[Somfy]: https://www.somfy.com/
[trigger selector]: /docs/blueprint/selectors/#trigger-selector
[ViCare]: /integrations/vicare

## New integrations

We welcome the following new integrations in this release:

- **[Devialet]**, added by [@fwestenberg]<br />
  Control your wireless Devialet speakers.
- **[Linear Garage Door]**, added by [@IceBotYT]<br />
  Lets you control and automate your Linear garage doors.
- **[MyPermobil]**, added by [@IsakNyberg]<br />
  Provides various sensors for your Permobil wheelchair.
- **[OurGroceries]**, added by [@OnFreund]<br />
  Integrate with the OurGroceries shopping lists.
- **[V2C]**, added by [@dgomes]<br />
  Monitoring and control of a local V2C Trydan EVSE.

[@dgomes]: https://github.com/dgomes
[@fwestenberg]: https://github.com/fwestenberg
[@IceBotYT]: https://github.com/IceBotYT
[@IsakNyberg]: https://github.com/IsakNyberg
[@OnFreund]: https://github.com/OnFreund
[Devialet]: /integrations/devialet

> [dgomes]: /integrations/v2c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[V2C]: /integrations/v2c
```

[Linear Garage Door]: /integrations/linear_garage_door
[MyPermobil]: /integrations/mypermobil
[OurGroceries]: /integrations/ourgroceries

## Integrations now available to set up from the UI

The following integrations are now available via the Home Assistant UI:

- **[CalDAV]**, done by [@allenporter]
- **[Fast.com]**, done by [@erwindouna]
- **[Ping]**, done by [@jpbede]

[@allenporter]: https://github.com/allenporter
[@erwindouna]: https://github.com/erwindouna
[@jpbede]: https://github.com/jpbede
[CalDAV]: /integrations/caldav
[Fast.com]: /integrations/fastdotcom
[Ping]: /integrations/ping

> [V2C]: /integrations/v2c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

First of all, there are two new services available. A much-requested service
to [list all items on a to-do list](/integrations/todo/#service-todoget_items)
and a helpful service to [remove all completed items from a to-do list](/integrations/todo/#service-todoclear_items).

It is nice to see integrations adding support for the to-do list feature.
For example, the [CalDAV] integration now supports adding to-do items to your
CalDAV server, and with [Picnic] and [OurGroceries] you can now manage your
shopping list. In the case of Picnic, it will even look up the product you add
in their store to your shopping list and add the product to your shopping cart.

Also, when viewing a to-do list from the Home Assistant interface,
you can copy/paste or bookmark the URL, which will always bring you back
to the same one—a small but very helpful improvement.

[CalDAV]: /integrations/caldav
[Picnic]: /integrations/picnic
[OurGroceries]: /integrations/ourgroceries

## Re-import blueprints

This release adds the ability to re-import the blueprint from the source from
which you originally imported it. The newly downloaded blueprint will overwrite

> the existing blueprint, providing some sort of "update" feature for blueprints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the existing blueprint, providing a simple "update" feature for blueprints.
```

YAML of the blueprint to make it match the latest version published
by the author. To make this last bit easier, we added this re-import ability.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2023-12/re-import-blueprint.png' alt='Screenshot showing that the overflow menu of a blueprint now provides the option to re-import an blueprint.'>

A helpful feature that will make it easier to keep your blueprints in
sync with the latest version published by the blueprint author.

## Other noteworthy changes

There are many more improvements in this release; here are some of the other
noteworthy changes this release:

- We have a brand new [trigger selector] for you to use in your Blueprints
  and scripts. Thanks, [@piitaya]!
- That is not all for selectors, [@schelv] added support for Kelvin to the
  [color temperature selector]. Nice!
- If you use the [IKEA IDÅSEN] desk, you will now have a height sensor!
  Thanks [@abmantis]!
- The [ESPHome] integration had many performance improvements, making it faster
  and more reliable. Thanks [@bdraco]!
- [@Lash-L] added support for displaying maps from your [Roborock] vacuums!
  Awesome!

> - Services with response now support handling responses when multiple entities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Services with a response now support handling responses when multiple entities
```
